---
layout: page
title: Math 608, Spring 2025
permalink: /teaching/608/
---

### Course Information
Time: MWF 9:10-10  
Location: BLOC 123  
Instructor: Dean Baskin  
Office: BLOC 614B  
Office hours: M 1:30-2:30, F 10-11  
[Syllabus](/assets/pdf/2025-spring-608-syllabus.pdf)

### Announcements
* Homework 4 had two errors in its original version: In problem 2, the denominator should be in terms of the metric rather than an absolute value.  In problem 4a, the series should converge to the inverse of I-T
* Office hours on Friday, February 7 and Monday, February 10 will not be held as planned.  Instead, I will hold office hours 11-12 on Thursday, February 6 and 1:30-2:30 on Tuesday, February 11.
* There was an error in the first problem of homework 3; compactness should be countable compactness.  Another error was in problem 2(b): the word compact was missing.  Both have been changed online.
* I am open to moving my Monday office hours to a different time on Monday (within constraints of my schedule).  If they currently do not work for you, please let me know times that do work for you on Mondays.
* I will hold additional office hour time on Tuesday, January 28 from 4pm to 4:45pm.

### Lecture topics
* January 13: Syllabus highlights.  Definition of topology, countability axioms.
* January 15: Separability axioms.  Continuity.  Product topology.
* January 17: Nets.  Statements of Urysohn Lemma and Tietze extension theorem.  Beginning of proof.  No office hours on Monday, January 20.
* January 22: Proof of Urysohn Lemma.  Compactness.
* January 24: Locally compact Hausdorff spaces.  Statement of Tychonoff theorem.
* January 27: Proof of Tychonoff theorem.  Arzela&ndash;Ascoli and proof.  
* January 29: Locally compact version of Arzela&ndash;Ascoli, statement and beginning of proof of Stone&ndash;Weierstrass.
* January 31: Proof of Stone&ndash;Weierstrass.
* February 3: End of Stone&ndash;Weierstrass, definition of normed vector space and Banach space.
* February 5: Examples of Banach spaces, bounded linear between normed spaces.
* February 7: Bounded linear functionals, Hahn&ndash;Banach (real version).
* February 10: Hahn&ndash;Banach (complex version), consequences.
* February 12: More consequences of Hahn&ndash;Banach, Baire category statement.
* February 14: Baire category theorem, Open mapping theorem.
* February 17: Closed graph theorem, principle of uniform boundedness.
* February 19: Exam.
* February 21: Interesting subclasses of operators, including compact operators.
* February 24: Topological vector spaces.
* February 26: Locally convex topological vector spaces, Frechet spaces.
* February 28: Weak topologies, topologies on dual spaces.
* March 3: Operator topologies, Hilbert spaces.

### Homework
* [Homework 0](/assets/pdf/608/hw00.pdf), due Wednesday, January 15.
* [Homework 1](/assets/pdf/608/hw01.pdf), due Wednesday, January 22.
* [Homework 2](/assets/pdf/608/hw02.pdf), due Wednesday, January 29.
* [Homework 3](/assets/pdf/608/hw03.pdf), due Wednesday, February 5.
* [Homework 4](/assets/pdf/608/hw04.pdf), due Wednesday, February 12.
* [Homework 5](/assets/pdf/608/hw05.pdf), not to be turned in.
* [Homework 6](/assets/pdf/608/hw06.pdf), due Wednesday, February 26.
* [Homework 7](/assets/pdf/608/hw07.pdf), due Wednesday, March 5.
